All right now we have a better idea of what we're going to do here at this class of timer.
Let's go back over to our code editor and start implementing it.
Again I want to repeat that if this seems really confusing right now no problem.
I fully expect that it does as we start to write some code.
You're going to very quickly get a better idea of what we're trying to do.
OK.
I got to go back over to my index dot J.S. file inside of here.
We currently have our console log of Hi there.
So I'll just delete that and replace it with class timer so instead of here I'm going to first define
our constructor method.
Remember the constructor is a very special function.
It's going to be called automatically whenever you create a new instance of timer.
So in other words if I say down here new timer in passing an argument of like hi there what actually
gets called Behind the scenes is the constructor function.
And the first argument to the constructor function will be that message of Hi there.
So if we receive that variable of message and like did a console log of it I would expect to see a council
log of the string.
Hi there appear inside of our console so for us we're going to eventually tried to pass in references
to DOM elements that our Timer class are going to listen into.
Sorry Timer class is going to listen for say a click on the Start button or click on the pause button
or someone to change the duration input right there as well whenever those events occur our Timer class
is going to run some method defined inside of it so inside of here I'm going to look at the constructor
and I'm going to receive an argument of duration input.
So again this is going to be a reference to a dumb element that is a text input.
So whenever we create a timer we are going to have to make sure that we pass in as the first argument
a reference to a text input and our second will be the start button.
And then finally the third is the pause button then inside of here we're going to we immediately take
these three different arguments and assign them to instance variables so we can refer back to these
DOM elements from other methods inside of our class if we so choose.
They'll say this dot duration input is duration input this dot start button is start button and this
dot pause button is pause button
next thing we're going to do is set up some event handlers on these different DOM elements.
So as I've said many times now whenever users say clicks on the play button we're going to want to call
a start method that is defined inside of our class.
So let's just start to worry about that pause assuming that play button.
Right now we won't worry about pause or the text input let's just try to make sure that whenever user
clicks on that play button we end up calling some method inside of our class called Start tobacco over
here.
I'm going to first define a method called Start and inside there I'll do a console log of time to start
the timer then to make sure that we call this method any time a user clicks on the start button.
We could set up an event listener from directly inside of our constructor so we'll say this dot start
button add event listener we're gonna watch for a click event and any time that occurs we will call
this dot start and that's pretty much it.
So that's how we're going to receive some arguments inside of our constructor we're going to store a
reference to each of them in case we need to work with them at some point in the future inside of all
of our different methods.
And then right away we will bind some event listeners to those elements as well.
And that's how we're going to eventually call some method that is defined inside of our class okay.
So now we've put this together let's try to create a duration and put inside of our HCM l document we're
going to create a start button and a pause button we'll then create an instance of our timer class and
pass in references to those three elements so going to first go back to my index start each CML file
over here I'm going to create an input element and I'm going to give it an idea of duration just to
make it really easy to select I'll also make a button with an idea of starts.
Once again just to make it easy to select and I'll give that button some texts like start and then finally
another button with an idea.
Pause.
I'll give it some text a pause and close off that tag as well.
So now we can attempt to select each of these three different elements and then create an instance out
of our timer using them.
It's a back inside of index not a US at the bottom of the file.
I'm going to select those three different elements using some query selectors.
We can either use a query selector or get element by I.D..
In this case I'm just going to use the query selector method because honestly I just personally prefer
to use it.
You could definitely use a get element by idea if you so chose it's all say duration input will be document
query selector pound duration so remember that is how we select an element by I.D. when we're using
query selector then start button be document dot query selector.
Start and finally pause button we document query selector element pause and then finally we can create
our instance of the timer and pass in those three elements so we just selected those counts.
Timer is a new timer and we will pass in duration input.
Start button and pause button
all right.
It's now the instant that we create a new instance of the timer and pass in those three elements.
Our Timer class is going to automatically set up that event listener for us whenever user clicks on
the Start button.
We're going to run that console log.
So right now this is some very basic interaction but I'm sure you can start to imagine how over time
we might start to implement different parts of the timer by wiring up events that are occurring to those
different elements to different methods inside of our class.
All right so let's go back over to our index not each single file.
I'm going to refresh the page and I'll see those three elements appear.
I'm going to zoom in my screen just you can see these different elements very easily.
Just remember that as you start to look at my screen you're going to see these elements very large and
they're only large on my screen because I'm far very far zoomed in so now to test this We'll click on
the start button and as soon as we do so we should see time to start the timer.
So that's going to be our signal to start to run some code inside of our class that's going to start
up the timer and start ticking down seconds and every time we tick over a second we're going to update
some text representation of the timer at the same time.
Okay.
So we made some pretty good progress here.
Let's take a pause.
We're going to come back the next video and continue working on our timer class.